First draft of new AAD changes (#787)
OctopusDeploy/docs: docs/security/authentication/azure-ad-authentication.md

---

:::hint
Azure Active Directory (AAD) authentication is available in **Octopus 3.5** and later and only works with Octopus Server and does not work with [Octopus Cloud](/docs/octopus-cloud/index.md).
:::

> To use Azure Active Directory (AAD) authentication with Octopus, you will need to get a few pieces lined up just right:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use Azure Active Directory (AAD) authentication with Octopus, you will need to do the following:
```

### Configure Octopus Deploy as an App in your AAD

:::success
**Get the right permissions for your Azure Active Directory tenant before starting**
To configure your instance of Octopus Deploy as an App, you will need administrator permissions to the desired Azure Active Directory tenant in your subscription.
:::

1. Log in to the [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com), click on your account positioned at the top-right of the screen, then select your desired directory.

   ![Switch Azure Directories](images/aad-portal.png "width=500")

2. Select the hamburger menu in the [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com)  and select **Azure Active Directory** from the Azure menu.

   ![Open AzureAD service](images/aad-service.png "width=500")

3. Select **App registrations** then choose **New application registration**

   ![New App registration](images/aad-new-app-registration.png "width=500")

4. Choose a **Name** like *Octopus Deploy*, select the correct **Supported account type**  for Single or Multi-Tenant, and enter a value for **Sign-On URL** like *https://octopus.example.com/api/users/authenticatedToken/AzureAD*. Then click **Register**.

>  -The URL must be using HTTPS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 -The URL must use HTTPS
```

 -When users input their credentials, the value you specify for Name will appear at the top of the Azure authentication page.
 -The value you specify for Sign-On URL should be the URL to your Octopus Server. This address is linked within your browser, so it only has to be resolvable on your network, not from the public Internet.
 -Include `/api/users/authenticatedToken/AzureAD` at the end of your Octopus URL

 :::hint

>  Please take care when adding this URL! They are **case-sensitive** and can be sensitive to trailing **slash** characters. You cannot use `HTTP` here, so you will need to use `https`. You will need to use an SSL certificate from a Certificate Authority, such as [LetsEncrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) or [GoDaddy](https://godaddy.com) and you can also do this by using Octopus Deploy [Let's Encrypt Integration](/docs/security/exposing-octopus/lets-encrypt-integration.md) or one from Active Directory Certificate Services.

Reviewer: Suggestion only, Let's Encrypt is a solid recommendation, I don't think we need to add others :)
```suggestion
 Please take care when adding this URL! They are **case-sensitive** and can be sensitive to trailing **slash** characters. You cannot use `HTTP` here, so you will need to use `https`. You will need to use an SSL certificate from a Certificate Authority, such as [LetsEncrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) and you can also do this by using Octopus Deploy [Let's Encrypt Integration](/docs/security/exposing-octopus/lets-encrypt-integration.md) or one from Active Directory Certificate Services.
```

!include <admin-user>

## The next steps

Now you're using an external identity provider; it is easy to increase your security. You could consider configuring [Multi-Factor Authentication](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/multi-factor-authentication/multi-factor-authentication), after all, Octopus Deploy has access to your production environments!

> You should also consider disabling any authentication providers you aren't using, like username and password authentication, which can now be disabled since **Octopus 3.5**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should also consider disabling any authentication providers you aren't using, like username and password authentication.
```

## Troubleshooting

> We do our best to log warnings to your Octopus Server log whenever possible. If you are having difficulty configuring Octopus to authenticate with Azure Active Directory, check your [server logs](/docs/support/log-files.md) for warnings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are having difficulty configuring Octopus to authenticate with Azure Active Directory, check your [server logs](/docs/support/log-files.md) for warnings.
```

### Double and triple check your configuration

Unfortunately, the security-related configuration is sensitive to everything. Make sure:

> - you don't have any typos or copy-paste errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You don't have any typos or copy-paste errors.
```

> - remember, things are case-sensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remember, things are case-sensitive.
```

> - remember to remove or add slash characters as we've instructed - they matter too!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remember to remove or add slash characters as we've instructed - they matter too!
```

> - Remember to remove or add slash characters as we've instructed - they matter too!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remember to remove or add slash characters.
```

### Check OpenID Connect metadata is working

> You can see the OpenID Connect metadata by going to the Issuer address in your browser, adding `/.well-known/openid-configuration` to the end. In our example, this would have been something like `https://login.microsoftonline.com/b91ebf6a-84be-4c6f-97f3-32a1d0a11c8a/.well-known/openid-configuration`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see the OpenID Connect metadata by going to the Issuer address in your browser, adding `/.well-known/openid-configuration` to the end. In our example, this would be something like `https://login.microsoftonline.com/b91ebf6a-84be-4c6f-97f3-32a1d0a11c8a/.well-known/openid-configuration`.
```

2. In Chrome Dev Tools, this is called "Preserve Log".

   ![Preserve Logs](images/5866122.png "width=500")

3. Attempt to sign into Octopus using Azure AD and find the HTTP POST coming back to your Octopus instance from Azure AD on a route like `/api/users/authenticatedToken/azureAD`. You should see an **id_token** field in the HTTP POST body.
4. Grab the contents of the **id_token** field and paste that into [https://jwt.io/](https://jwt.io/), which will decode the token for you.

   ![Id Token](images/5866123.png "width=500")

5. Don't worry if jwt.io complains about the token signature; it doesn't support RS256, which is used by Azure AD.
6. Octopus uses most of the data to validate the token, but primarily uses the **sub**, **email** and **name** claims. If these claims are not present, you will likely see unexpected behavior.

### Contact Octopus Support

If you aren't able to resolve the authentication problems yourself using these troubleshooting tips, please reach out to our [support team](https://octopus.com/support) with:

1. The contents of your OpenID Connect Metadata or the link to download it (see above) can be different for each Azure AD App.

> 2. A copy of the decoded payload for some security tokens (see above) may work as expected, and others are not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. A copy of the decoded payload for some security tokens (see above) may work as expected, and others will not.
```
